In this demo I'm going to show you
the difference between the livenessProbe
and the readinessProbe.
In the previous lecture I showed you
how to use the livenessProbe.
Let's have a look at the script again.
Helloworld-healthcheck.
Here we have the livenessProbe defined
and httpGet on slash within the app.
Let's have a look
between a difference of this check and the other check.
If you do kubectl, great,
of helloworld-healthcheck
and immediately afterwards we do a watch
of the pods, kubectl get pods.
Then you will see that the pod is immediately ready.
So it's now running and it became immediately ready.
It didn't wait for any check to perform.
So it means it's immediately serving requests.
The readinessProbe is different from the livenessProbe
because it will first wait until the readinessProbe succeeds
and only then it will start serving requests.
Let's have a look at
the helloworld-liveness-readiness.yml.
Here I have also a readinnesProbe.
Works exactly in the same way as a livenessProbe
to define it in the yaml file.
You can also use the httpGet.
But the difference is
when we do a create of this one
and then we do a watch
you will see now the container is creating.
Now it is running but it's not ready yet.
First this initial delay needs to pass.
Then the check will be executed once,
and only when the check is executed,
and they came back successful then the pod will be ready,
and it will be ready to serve requests.
Only now it is ready.
So that's the difference between the liveness
and the readinessProbe.
So let me show you again this file.
So here we have the initialDelaySeconds, 15 seconds,
and then the readinessProbe started checking.
And only then when it had a success back
then the pod was ready and the pod IP
is added to the service,
and the service will redirect traffic to that pod.
If the readinessProbe fails for some reason,
then the IP address will also be removed
from the service and no traffic will reach this pod
until the readinessProbe gives a success again.
If used in combination with a livenessProbe
and we use the same path then what's gonna happen is
it will be removed from the service
and the container will be restarted to make sure
that the container works again.
And a container will be restarted
because that's what the livenessProbe does.
If the probe fails it will restart the container.
So that's it for the liveness and the readinessProbe.